---
layout: post
title: PyCon APAC Afterthoughts as a conference organizer
description: My thoughts and experience of PyCon APAC as a fellow conference organizer.
category: articles
tags: [python, pycon, apac, singapore, taiwan]
image:
  feature: pyconapac.jpg
---

### Going abroad

I have had the opportunity of attending [PyCon APAC
2014](https://tw.pycon.org/2014apac/) held in Taipei over the last weekend. As
the chairman for PyCon Singapore this year, I was very interested to learn how
other countries organized PyCon in the APAC region (while controlling my
excitement for attending my first overseas conference).

Parts of the conference that I found interesting will be summarized here
followed by my own thoughts as a fellow conference organizer. Pardon any
grammatical errors as I am doing my best to write things down before I forget
them.

### Conference registration

![Conference Registration](/images/pycon/registration.jpg)

Over 600 people attended the conference which was held at the Humanities and
Social Science Building within [Academia
Sinica](https://tw.pycon.org/2014apac/en/venue/). This was the largest APAC
conference since last year's APAC conference in Japan, which was attended by
over 500 people.

Regardless of the conference, one big headache for both attendees and
organizers is definitely registration. For this conference, attendees were
split into four different registration queues using their phone numbers. For
example, if your phone number (provided when purchasing the ticket) ends with
012, you would belong to the 0 ~ 400 queue. This was a particularly interesting
scheme because I have no idea how the distribution of phone numbers looked
like. By 9am, I noticed that there were still a number of attendees who were
in their respective queues waiting to get their tote bag and name tag. I
suppose that coming on time is never a good idea when attending a (huge)
conference.

Meanwhile in Singapore, we only have a single registration counter to handle
200+ attendees; at times a long queue would form but never to the state where
attendees would complain.

### Conference hall and rooms

![Venue](/images/pycon/bof_floor_plan.png)

The number of attendees exceeded the capacity for the main hall used for
Keynotes and lightning talks so some of us had to move to a higher platform at
the back for a seat. Most of us were unaware of that smaller conference rooms
used for talks had a live-case of keynotes - I only found out during the second
day when I forgot that there was a keynote and waited for a normal talk to
began. I do not recall hearing any announcements made about the live-cast. Then
again, the microphone volume was quite soft at the rear end of the conference
hall so I most likely missed the announcement.

Each of the [conference rooms](https://tw.pycon.org/2014apac/en/venue/details/)
could hold a varying number of people. R0, the conference hall is the largest
while R3 is the smallest and can only hold up to 36 people. Some of the more
popular talks were unfortunately scheduled to be in R3 and it became too packed
(I missed out a couple of talks because I was too slow).

This really is not the fault of the organizers because it is really really hard
to predict the popularity of certain talks and they are also constrained by the
number of rooms available at the conference venue. I wonder if there a "I am
interested in attending this talk" polling system would help alleviate the
situation. It might complicate the scheduling of talks though. 

### Recreation hall

The recreation hall is an interesting place. Sponsors setup their booths here
and there is even free tea provided to all attendees by Wolftea (琅茶), a
startup based in Taiwan (my personal favourite is their 果韻鐵觀音 or
Tieguanyin). Conference attendees in Singapore would most likely go for coffee
though (NesCafe capsule machines come to mind). From what I gather, tea is very
much still a popular choice of drink there despite the invasion of Starbucks
and cafes. I loved the tea so much that I bought two packs of 鐵觀音 back to
enjoy. Too bad they do not ship to Singapore.

A long row of refreshments were made available at the recreation hall which
greatly helped seal it as THE "chat corridor" where tons of interactions
between attendees took place. Many attendees also spoke to the sponsors as they
were within arm's reach at the same recreation hall. Our past PyCons in
Singapore had sponsors within the main conference hall and there was tons of
missed opportunities for sponsors and attendees to interact. Hopefully we can
get it right this year at our new [conference
venue](http://www.sp.edu.sg/wps/portal/vp-spws).

### APAC Community Panel

One key reason for attending this PyCon was the APAC Community Panel held after
the second day's keynote. The panel, consisting of PyCon organizers from the
APAC region (Taiwan, Philippines, Indonesia, Singapore, Japan, Taiwan and
Korea) was unsurprisingly  attended by only a small number of conference
attendees. The interaction between each of the panel members showed that most
organizers agreed in principles of how APAC should be held. Nonetheless, the
devil's in the details. There were still plenty of issues everyone of us had to
work out as PyCon APAC goes forward.

Beng Keat, who started the [Python User Group Singapore](http://pugs.org.sg/)
represented us. While most would say it should really have been me since I have
been elected to be the President of the user group, there were still plenty of
matters and issues discussed that I were not fully aware yet, such as funding
and sponsorship within the region. This was a great learning opportunity for me
since Beng Keat has been at the helm with the APAC initiative since years ago.
His thoughts of how subsequent APAC should proceed was especially enlightening
(he had years to ponder about them!).

### Things I missed out

I had to miss out [Birds of Feathers](https://tw.pycon.org/2014apac/en/bof/)
because some tourism had to be done on the first day - [Shilin night
market](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shilin_Night_Market) was waiting. Some BoF
sessions continued late into through the night so it was a pity that I missed
some of them (especially the educators one).

Due to my poor memory, I missed out on the poster session as well. We do not
have poster sessions in Singapore so I originally wanted to take a look and see
how and where it was held.

### Language

As this was my first trip to Taiwan, I was mildly concerned whether my Mandarin
ability is sufficient for me to get around. Turns out that watching tons of
Taiwan entertainment shows while young does help a lot. Okay, maybe reading
Chinese novels helped a lot too.

I had to mentally remap some words and phrases before I start speaking, such as
德士 -> 计程车. A similar example in English would be Taxi -> Cab, which is a
fun mental exercise for me.

Despite using English for most day to day conversations in Singapore, I managed
to transition to Mandarin for conversations with fellow attendees here pretty
easily. I personally felt that conversations I had here in Mandarin was a lot
more colorful and interesting than English. To quote one of my Taiwanese
friends: "語言真的是很有趣的連結", which I believe can be loosely translated as
"Language connects people in interesting ways".

### Packing up

![The End](/images/pycon/end.jpg)

Looking back at my trip, there was no doubt that the fun parts of the
conference were interactions with the Taiwanese people. They are so incredibly
welcoming and helpful to foreign attendees like me. I have also had fun
discussing differences between our countries with the Taiwanese attendees -
it's the naunces between our spoken languages that show us how different and
similar we are.


